Hi everybody and welcome back in the last lecture we looked at the title method which allowed us to
capitalize the first letter of any string or any word.
So as we know a method is an action that can come perform on any piece of data.
So in this lecture we're going to look at pipings find method.
So again we're still going to say with strings.
So let's just enter in a string here and we start off with our opening and our closing quotes.
So this string I'm going to enter is my favorite book is single quote because I want to emphasize the
book name Elon Musk and if you haven't read it give it a go.
It really is an excellent and a quick read.
So here we have our strength.
So let's just say again we have a program and it might have a search bar in it or a search function
within it and we want to find where book is within our string or we might want to find where the word
for it is within our string what we can do here is we can assign this first a variable.
So let's just say my book equals.
So now we have our variable on the left hand side and we have our value which is a string on a right.
And what we do here now is we attach the find method
OK seems simple enough but we have to tell it what we want to find.
We just have empty brackets and as we said in The Last Lecture brackets are where you can place information
of what you want to find method to do or any method to do so in this instance.
We want to find book B.
OK.
So there we go.
So let's see what this does for us here and to get the information out to the screen.
We have print my book let's run that perfect today.
Now down here in the left hand side we can see that we got a return of 12 and why 12.
Why not the actual workbook.
Well obviously we need to first find where book is put in our strength.
So here we have my favorite book.
So what the 12 refers to is the position within our string where the word book starts.
So when Spuyten counts it doesn't count.
One two three four.
Instead it starts at zero.
So 0 1 2 3 4 and so on.
And the reason Python starts at 0 is because it will on your computer language actually for that matter
will start at zero is because it allows you to count backwards.
So 0 minus one month to months minus four and so on.
So you have that flexibility go forwards into positive numbers or backwards into negative numbers.
So here we have here.
My favorite book and if you were to count out you would see that B which is the start of book starts
at position or as it's known in programming languages the index 12.
And that's where the book starts.
So equally we could change this and we could say instead of book we could say E-Loan and we can run
this again and we get position 21 or index 21 position to index 21 OK.
So how can this find method be used in the real world.
Well as I mentioned at the start imagine this was a search program and you wanted to type in find Ilan
it would be able to give you back what position Ilan is in.
How many times E-Loan was mentioned in the search parameters or whatever might you might be.
There are plenty of ways to expand on this Xon little method.
Now Equally if you had a program and it was going back to an example an email program you could have
a spam filter.
So what you could make your program do is find characters that are associated with spam.
So we could have subject as a variable equals and then the title over e-mail let's just say is get rich
now.
So I'm sure we've all got these kind of emails and we could have that find
print subject.
And let's see Amanda be and there we go.
And this is interesting.
We got the value back of zero.
And as I just said Platon started counting at zero.
Then it goes one two tree.
So what this poll is telling us is that it found our search of three dollar signs in the very very beginning
of our strength.
So here we are.
So here it is here.
And what we could do later on is we could refine our e-mail program to remove any messages that it picks
up as spam which is a three dollar signs.
And this example.
So that's a quick example of the find method.
And as always as we've seen in our last lecture the find that starts with i n Andy brackets and inside
the brackets is the argument that you want to pass on the information that you want to pass and applying
for a method to act upon.
So I hope that made sense.
If not please shoot me a question on the Q&A section.
I gave the activities go at the end of the section thank you and I'll see you in the next lecture.